Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:0145b4ce-e217-4a97-be63-f180af8eab61> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:3/27/2013 1:30PM     
China in Africa: Assessing the Far East Footprint
On the agenda as China's new leader, Xi Jingping, continues his three-state swing through Africa: loans, BRICS, trade deals and addressing concerns that his country is moving too aggressively on the continent.
         
Transcript
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
I ... China's President Xi Jinping Mina ceremonies entrance to the Tanzanian capital Dar es Salaam on March twenty four ... it was his first trip to Africa as leader he Mela the country's president to kayak a quest to ... enter new China's offer of twenty billion dollars in loans to the continent over the next two years ... also on the itinerary of the Republic of Congo and the BRICs conference in South Africa ... she's sure reinforces the idea that Africa has a high Purdy for China ... trade between the two was two hundred billion dollars in two thousand twelve ... that's up almost twenty percent from two thousand eleven ... China looks Africa to feed its need for everything from oil to minerals ... that in his speech he also acknowledged that there are any issues that could strain relations between country and continent in the future ... as China seeks to bolster commerce with many of Africa's fifty four nations ... China's largest trading partners include Anglo South Africa Sudan Nigeria and Egypt ... and trade with the content on the whole has been down just ... for the many countries about extensive natural resources there is significant trade deficits ... China has been improving to the convent building up much needed infrastructure and buildings ... including the two hundred million are African Union headquarters in Ethiopia ... but some of these projects have been built up by Africans by Chinese construction firms with Chinese workers ... there are also concerns merchants on the local level are being edged out and undercut by Chinese vendors ... who can flood the market with cheap or get ... the alleged issue overarching on this is that China is embarking on a new economic colonialism ... by Africa's raw materials and using them to manufacture goods that its NCAA's back to Africa ... isn't she bypassing the Titans industrial sector in the process ... thus far these issues haven't slowed the China Africa turning China's cumulative foreign direct investment in Africa after two thousand eleven ... was sixteen billion dollars ... but some experts think it's significantly higher than that ... in any case it's growing ... China's state-owned firms are doing business in places that would be considered too unstable or conflict prone by Western companies ... it also doesn't impose conditions on its commercial dealings ... it does business with regimes ... that the West decided first human rights violations ... Kerry's Tanzania's stuff she said China will continue to offer necessary assistance to Africa ... with no political strings attached ... that approach is generally lead to more economic opportunities in Africa ... China's impact is literally helped pave the way for the Conn's emerging middle class ... whether it's self interests will continue to match with Africa is in the years ahead is still an open question ... for the law Street Journal this is Mark Scheffler in New York ...>>
