Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:06e1796f-16f3-4e60-893d-ba83b22a58e2> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:Li Keqiang Holds Talks with Prime Minister Sooronbay Jeenbekov of Kyrgyzstan, Stressing to Explore New Growth Points for Cooperation and Push China-Kyrgyzstan Friendly Cooperation for New Development
On the afternoon of November 2, 2016 local time, Premier Li Keqiang held talks with Prime Minister Sooronbay Jeenbekov of Kyrgyzstan at the conference center of Bishkek State Guesthouse.
Li Keqiang noted that China and Kyrgyzstan are friendly neighbors and strategic partners. The two countries enjoy solid political mutual trust, close high-level exchanges, rapid development in practical cooperation and active people-to-people and cultural exchanges. China supports Kyrgyzstan’s choice of development path according to its own national conditions and its efforts in safeguarding national independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. China is willing to transform the high-level political mutual trust to more tangible cooperation results so as to promote the sustained, sound and all-round development of China-Kyrgyzstan relationship and cooperation.
Li Keqiang pointed out that China and Kyrgyzstan share strong complementary advantages in economy, many interest convergence points and huge cooperation potential. China is willing to synergize the “Belt and Road” initiative with Kyrgyzstan’s development strategies, steadily advance China-Kyrgyzstan production capacity cooperation, strengthen infrastructure construction cooperation in transportation and other areas, and develop cooperation in agriculture and deep processing of agricultural products. Both sides should also enhance exchanges and cooperation in information and communication, tourism and people-to-people and cultural engagement. China expects the Kyrgyz side to further improve investment environment in order to provide convenience for Chinese enterprises to invest and develop business in Kyrgyzstan.
Sooronbay Jeenbekov stated that Kyrgyzstan and China actively implement the cooperation consensus reached by leaders of the two countries, and have pushed the development of bilateral relations to a high level. Both sides, with frequent high-level mutual visits and considerable progress in cooperation in economy, science and technology and other areas, have carried out sound cooperation within the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) framework. The Kyrgyz side is willing to, together with China, further intensify political dialogues, drive “Belt and Road” construction through bilateral economic cooperation, launch cooperation in production capacity , investment, textile, telecommunication, small-and medium-sized enterprises, agriculture, water conservancy and irrigation, civil aviation transportation, emergency response and disaster relief and other areas, push forward such construction projects as China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway and Bishkek highway, upgrade bilateral economic and trade cooperation to a new height and benefit the two peoples. The Kyrgyz side is willing to strengthen communication and cooperation with China within the SCO and other multilateral institutions.
Li Keqiang stressed that current regional security situation is complicated and severe. This August, the Chinese Embassy in Kyrgyzstan suffered horrific terrorist attack. China hopes the Kyrgyz side to accelerate the investigation and handling of the event, take necessary measures to guarantee the safety of Chinese personnel stationed in Kyrgyzstan, and provide support and assistance. China is willing to deepen security cooperation with Kyrgyzstan and fight against the “three evil forces” to maintain regional security and stability.
Sooronbay Jeenbekov noted that the Kyrgyz side strongly condemns this horrific terrorist attack against the Chinese Embassy in Kyrgyzstan this year and will take all necessary measures to secure the safety of the Chinese Embassy and staff. The Kyrgyz side will strengthen cooperation in security and law enforcement with China, combat the “three evil forces” and safeguard the security and stability of the two countries and region.
Both sides also exchanged in-depth views on international and regional issues of common concern. Li Keqiang spoke positively of the work done by the Kyrgyz side as a SCO founding member and the host country of the Meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Governments (Prime Ministers) this time. He noted that the Chinese side is willing to enhance communication and cooperation with Kyrgyzstan and other sides to ensure the success of the meeting and make greater contributions to realizing regional long-term peace and stability as well as promoting common development.
After the talks, Premier Li Keqiang and Prime Minister Sooronbay Jeenbekov jointly signed and issued the Joint Communiqué between the Government of China and the Government of Kyrgyzstan and witnessed the signing of several cooperation documents between both sides covering economic technology, production capacity, transportation, agriculture, intellectual property rights and other sectors.
(This article is published on the official website of Chinese Foreign Ministry)>>
