Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:0bfce07d-8fda-4435-8c1b-4d95b9b360b7> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:An American Nuclear Umbrella Means a Lot to Northeast Asia
Sue Mi Terry, a managing director for Bower Group Asia, is a former senior North Korea analyst at the Central Intelligence Agency.
October 26, 2016
North Korea is racing ahead with its nuclear and ballistic missile programs. Publicly available estimates suggest that by 2020 it will have the ability to hit the continental United States with a nuclear-missile; by that point it may have as many as 100 nuclear warheads .  Even before then North Korea poses a growing danger to its neighbors, South Korea and Japan, which both have the technology to field their own nuclear weapons in relatively short order.
The best way to prevent South Korea and Japan from going nuclear is to restore confidence in the American nuclear deterrent.
Why haven’t South Korea and Japan gone ahead and nuclearized already? A big part of the explanation is the faith they have placed in the American nuclear umbrella. But that faith is starting to erode.
There are growing calls from South Korean lawmakers in the conservative, ruling Saenuri Party to develop nuclear weapons — an option that was endorsed by 54 percent of those surveyed by Gallup Korea in January 2016.  What would happen if South Korea were to go nuclear? Japan would follow suit. And then we would be in the midst of a dangerous and destabilizing nuclear-arms race involving Japan, South Korea, North Korea and China, similar to the nuclear competition that already exists between India and Pakistan.  The chances of a catastrophic conflict would greatly increase. That would not be in the interests of Northeast Asia or in the interests of America.
The best way to prevent that eventuality is to restore confidence in the American nuclear deterrent. Part of that task will involve political and diplomatic signaling on the part of the next president, presumably Hillary Clinton. But to back up words with actions it is also important to make the necessary investments to keep the American nuclear arsenal robust and credible. If those investments aren’t made, the nuclear weapons will degrade and America’s ability to deter a wide range of adversaries — not only North Korea but also China and Russia, and potentially Iran and Pakistan — will dangerously decrease.>>
