Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:119690cf-3a82-418a-8364-0cc3b838063d> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:Monday, January 30, 2017
Meanwhile, Rwanda is voting for president today , Friday, August 4, with the main contender, incumbent President Paul Kagame of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), vying with the leader of the Democratic Green Party of Rwanda (DGPR) Frank Habineza and independent candidate Phillipe Mpayimana for the role. Polls close at 4:00 pm in Rwanda and the results are expected to be announced tonight or this weekend—although expectations of Kagame’s re-election are so high that he already called the election in his favor last month at his first campaign rally, according to the Associated Press.
A voter casts her ballot at a polling station in Kigali, Rwanda, August 4, 2017. REUTERS/Jean Bizimana – RTS1AC61
In Senegal, the ruling Benno Bokk Yakaar (BBY) party claimed victory in Sunday’s parliamentary elections although the vote was marred by irregularities, according to the opposition. The national electoral commission has not yet released the official results , but according to Prime Minister Mahammed Boun Abdallah Dionne, the BYY won all but three of the country’s electoral departments. Still, the two main opposition parties argue that abnormalities in the vote, particularly delays in issuing voting cards, selectively aimed to disenfranchise opposition supporters and skew the vote in favor of the BYY.
China officially opens its first international military base in Djibouti
On Tuesday, August 1, in Djibouti, China opened its first-ever overseas military base . Construction on the base, which will be used to resupply navy vessels participating in peacekeeping and humanitarian missions around Somalia and Yemen, began last year. According to al-Jazeera, the current agreement between China and Djibouti allows China to use the base until 2026 and host a maximum troop level of 10,000. Djibouti already hosts military bases for the United States, Japan, and France given its strategic location in the Horn of Africa. Djibouti’s location near the Suez Canal —a major trade route that transports as much as 10 percent of sea-borne oil—and its location along the maritime Silk Road initiative were both likely considerations for China when selecting the location. Notably, the Chinese government officially classifies the base as a logistics facility and not a naval base.
The opening is part of China’s deepening military engagement in East Africa. China has offered to step-in and fill the gap left by the recent withdrawal of Qatari troops from the disputed Djibouti-Eritrea border. In the longer term, it has offered to help resolve the disagreement if both nations agree to China’s proposed role as mediator. China also currently has troops deployed in South Sudan as part of the current U.N. peacekeeping force there. In 2015, Chinese President Xi Jinping committed to building a standby peacekeeping force of 8,000 troops and provide a $100 million in military aid to the African Union.
For a more detailed look at China’s increasing military and economic relationship in Africa, read AGI Nonresident Fellow Yun Sun’s paper,  Africa in China’s Foreign Policy .
Google CEO visits Nigeria
Last week, Google CEO Sundar Pichal visited Nigeria and spoke at a Google for Nigeria event during which Google launched a number of programs and services in the continent. One of these initiatives is the Google Launchpad Space in Nigeria , a program that will assist entrepreneurs by supporting their startups through mentorship. This will be the first Launchpad located outside of San Francisco. Google also launched YouTube Go in Nigeria , a service that allows users to watch YouTube videos offline, thus bypassing Nigeria’s connectivity issues . Google’s charitable arm, Google.org, pledged $20 million of support to African non-profits over the next five years. Within this realm, in 2018, Google will launch the Google.org Impact Challenge in Africa to invite local nonprofits to share their ideas on ways to have an impact in their local communities. The challenge will award $5 million in grants. 
Related Books>>
