Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:201b1cd0-2e22-4302-925c-cab2484780c3> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:Image
Downtown Flint, Mich., last month. Emails indicate that officials were concerned last March about a wave of Legionnaires’ cases and raised the possibility of a link to Flint River water.
By Monica Davey and Mitch Smith
Feb. 4, 2016
Michigan state officials were aware of an increase in Legionnaires’ disease cases and a possible tie to Flint’s troubled water supply at least 10 months before Gov. Rick Snyder informed the public of the situation last month, newly obtained emails show.
The emails , obtained through a public records request by Progress Michigan, a liberal advocacy group, indicate that county health officials were concerned last March about a wave of Legionnaires’ cases, and were at the time raising the possibility of a connection to the city’s switch to a new water source, the Flint River.
“Essentially,” the county health officials are “putting up the flare” and asserting that the “uptick in cases is directly attributable to the river as a drinking water source,” said an official at the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality in an email to his state colleagues March 13.
Mr. Snyder, a Republican who has faced the harshest criticism of his tenure for his handling of the crisis in Flint, announced Jan. 13 that the state had concerns about whether the water supply might be connected to an increase in cases of the disease, which can be fatal.
A spokesman for the governor said Thursday that he had not been briefed by his aides on the issue until January, shortly before he made his public statements on it.
“He took action promptly and released the information publicly,” the spokesman, Dave Murray, said. 
Concerns about Flint’s water have largely focused on the presence of lead. Since Flint, a shrinking city of fewer than 100,000, switched its source in April 2014 to save money, the water has had rising, dangerous lead levels as well as unsafe levels of fecal coliform bacteria. After extra chlorine was added to treat that bacteria, levels of a contaminant from extra chlorine also increased.
But at the same time, the emails suggest, county health officials were noting another problem: a wave of Legionnaires’ disease cases.
In Genesee County, which includes Flint, state officials say there have been 87 cases of Legionnaires’ disease since June 2014, and nine associated deaths. But state officials and some experts say they are unsure whether the rise in cases is tied to the city’s water. People contract the disease by breathing in mist or vapor that has Legionella bacteria, which is often found in warm water. According to federal estimates, American hospitals treat 8,000 to 18,000 people with the disease each year.
“We cannot conclude that the increase is related to the water switch in Flint, nor can we rule out a possible association,” Angela Minicuci, a spokeswoman for the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services, said Thursday. About 35 percent of the people who became sick received City of Flint water in their homes, Ms. Minicuci said, but about 30 percent did not, and had no known exposure to the city’s water system in the two weeks before they became ill.
Speaking to reporters in Flint on Thursday, Dr. Eden Wells, the chief medical executive for the department, said that the timing of the Legionnaires’ outbreak “correlated fairly well” with the timing of Flint’s water source change.
In the emails from early 2015, leaders from the Genesee County Health Department were seeking information — through a formal public records request — from Flint officials about their water given the rise in Legionnaires’ cases. “The increase of the illnesses closely corresponds with the time frame of the switch to Flint River water,” Jim Henry, an environmental health supervisor for the Genesee County Health Department, wrote on March 10, calling it a “significant and urgent public health issue.”
Sending that exchange along to other, high-level state officials, Brad Wurfel, who was then the communications director for the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, suggested that Mr. Henry was making a “leap” in his assertion, and described that as “beyond irresponsible.” He also appeared critical of the county health officials for failing to conduct required work to properly trace a disease to its source. Mr. Wurfel has since resigned.
Harvey Hollins, Mr. Snyder’s director of Urban and Metropolitan Initiatives, was among those who received the email. Mr. Murray, Mr. Snyder’s spokesman, said that when Mr. Hollins read it in March, he asked the state’s Department of Environmental Quality to determine whether the concerns were credible, in which case he intended to notify the governor. “The issue was not brought to the governor’s attention until January of this year,” Mr. Murray said.
Democrats, who have been highly critical of the Snyder administration’s handling of the crisis, said the delay in disclosing a possible link to Legionnaires’ disease was unacceptable.
“There is a limit to how many times you can play dumb when it comes to events and actions that take place on your watch,” said Brandon Dillon, chairman of the Michigan Democratic Party.
Julie Bosman contributed reporting.
A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: Email Reveals Early Suspicions of Link to Legionnaires’ Disease. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe
Related Coverage>>
