Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:338326e0-e06f-421c-ab86-8ab0592dc79a> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:On Wednesday, officials from Michigan and the federal Environmental Protection Agency were called before a House committee to explain how they let the drinking water in Flint become poisoned by lead. Also testifying before the committee was a mother of four whose tap water has been so contaminated since early 2015 that her family has had to use bottled water for drinking and cooking and has often showered at friends’ homes outside the city.
The crisis in Flint is the result of many failures, starting with governor-appointed emergency managers, who made catastrophic mistakes. It poses an important question for Congress and state legislatures: When and how should state officials intervene at the local level?
Intervention is necessary when mayors, city councils and other authorities like school boards face significant problems that they cannot or will not fix. But state officials need to have judgment and competence to turn troubled systems around. To some people, the very idea of suspending or curbing the power of local elected officials is wrong, but there is a long history of state governments taking control of systems on the verge of collapse.
For example, New York State imposed a financial control board on New York City in 1975 and Congress and President Bill Clinton did the same in Washington in 1995. Those appointed boards exercised veto power over many decisions made by local elected leaders, and helped those cities restructure their debts.
But Michigan’s intervention in Flint, an impoverished city, provides a striking counterexample. There an emergency manager appointed by Gov. Rick Snyder stuck to a disastrous money-saving decision to change the city’s water source, even after local residents and the City Council complained about contamination . State environmental officials, also under the governor’s control, said the water was safe to drink even as outside experts found elevated levels of lead. After more than a year of denying the problem, state officials recently admitted that they had been wrong. The F.B.I. said Tuesday that it had joined the federal investigation of the Flint crisis, possibly for criminal misconduct.
This is not the only crisis mishandled in Michigan. The Detroit school system has had a succession of emergency managers appointed by Mr. Snyder, a Republican, and his Democratic predecessor, Jennifer Granholm. The district’s debt has increased since its first emergency manager was appointed in 2009, enrollment is shrinking and the schools have grown more dilapidated. Why replace the school board with emergency managers who don’t have the expertise to fix the underlying problems?
On Tuesday, the most recent emergency manager for the schools, Darnell Earley, resigned . Mr. Earley was also the emergency manager in Flint who oversaw the decision to switch its water source to the Flint River while the city waited for a new pipeline to be built to Lake Huron. Under his watch, the city failed to treat the river water to prevent corrosion in the pipes, which led to the leaching of lead into the city’s water.
The emergency managers in Flint and Detroit schools went in as dictators, and it is not surprising they made glaring mistakes, while ignoring complaints and suggestions from the communities they were supposedly helping. Unlike the financial control boards in New York and Washington, which included people who had a stake in those cities, Michigan’s emergency managers answer only to the governor and the Legislature, which is controlled by Republicans, who tend to be elected from suburban and largely white parts of the state.
To be fair, the emergency manager for the city of Detroit, a bankruptcy lawyer named Kevyn Orr, who was appointed in 2013 and stepped down in December 2014 , was able to guide Detroit through bankruptcy in part because he worked with the mayor , City Council and community leaders, rather than shunting aside their concerns.
Across the country, more than a dozen states , including Florida, Illinois, Ohio and Pennsylvania, have laws that allow the appointment of a manager or board to help distressed local governments. In some places state control has remained for decades. In New Jersey, for example, the state’s Department of Education has been in control of Newark schools for more than 20 years. At the federal level, the Obama administration is asking Congress to give Puerto Rico the ability to restructure its $72 billion debt and to create a financial control board.
The lesson from Michigan is that emergency managers succeed only if they work with the communities they serve. The aim should be to shore up local governments, not simply to cut costs in ways that lead to new disasters.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter , and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter .
A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: When State Control Damages a City. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe
Related Coverage>>
