Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:36055ba2-dd1b-47cb-8c0f-9ac875782a5f> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:The 30th anniversary this week of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the United States and China is only the first of a string of historic dates that will roll out in the People's Republic this year. Anniversaries are usually little more than occasions for celebration – or neglect – and useful pegs for media think pieces. But their sheer volume in China this year is striking and some may actually be significant occasions for stocktaking. In two cases, they could trigger challenges to the regime as it faces an unusually testing year with social order threatened by slowing growth, factory closures and the return of tens of millions of migrant workers from the coastal expansion zones to the countryside where there are no jobs for them.
The last 12 months have been unexpectedly testing, but 2009 will be even more so. China needs a raft of changes to its political, economic and social systems three decades after Deng Xiaoping launched market-led economic reforms , but there is little sign of real movement, with political liberalisation in particular on the back burner. In line with this, the anniversaries will be celebrated for reinforcing the template by which China is ruled, rather than as occasions to question if there may be other ways of running the world's most populous nation, drawing lessons from the past rather than reducing history to an argument for continuing the status quo.
Internationally, the inauguration of the Obama administration will pose a major question for the relationship between China and the United States , in particular if protectionist pressures increase in America (as well as Europe). Obama and the Chinese president, Hu Jintao, need one another as I argued here last month , but will domestic tensions in their two countries interfere with what should be a key relationship in guiding the world out of its present economic crisis?
Last month brought the 30th anniversary of the start of economic reforms launched by Deng Xiaoping after he gained the upper hand in the power struggle that followed the death of Mao Zedong two years earlier. The establishment of formal diplomatic relations agreed between Deng and Jimmy Carter in 1979, seven years after Richard Nixon had broken through the cold war bamboo curtain, was the outcome of the decision to open China economically to the world, at least as far as export zones were concerned. This led, in time, to today's historically paradoxical situation of a country that is still quite poor funding the personal and government spending of the United States, and so is well worthy of at least a passing nod.
After the US anniversary, in March we get the 50th anniversary of the Tibet uprising that led to the flight of the Dalai Lama to India and was followed by fresh unrest in 1989, which was put down by a rising Communist party official, Hu Jintao, now Communist party leader and president of China. Then, on 4 May, comes the 90th anniversary of the protest movement in Beijing that unfurled the banner of modernisation, iconoclasm and democracy in the movement named after the date on which it took place, providing a seedbed for new thinking that affected, among others, the young Mao Zedong and produced a cultural shift among Chinese intellectuals remembered to this day.
A month later and we will be at the 20th anniversary of the suppression of the student demonstration in Tiananmen Square and the decision by Deng and the Communist elders to use tanks to crush not only the protest in the centre of the capital but also the ordinary people of the city who had successfully halted earlier incursions by the armed forces. Then October will bring the biggest official celebration, of the 60th anniversary of the foundation of the People's Republic. It is a safe bet that there will be no marking of the start of the famine of 1959 that followed the Great Leap Forward and may have killed as many as 30 million people.
Today's China, whether booming or labouring under a sudden economic downturn, as has been the case since last summer, seems in many ways so new that it is easy to regard it solely as the product of the reforms introduced after 1978. But, as I have argued in my book on the recent history of modern China, the past still counts for a great deal and keeps popping up in unexpected ways the leadership finds it hard to deal with. History is still an intensely political matter in China but can, by its nature, be hard to control in the popular memory.
The echoes from the past are evident, from the central-provincial relationship to Tibet, from corruption to top-down rule and from regime legitimacy to the current harassment of signatories of the Charter 08 petition calling for greater political freedom. Alongside this is the core question of China's relationship with the rest of the world and whether the last major state ruled by a Communist party continues the engagement begun under Deng or retreats into increasing focus on its own internal concerns. The approved version is written by those on top. Inconvenient events are either air-brushed out or presented in a stylised manner to fit current needs, as in the insistence that by crushing the 1989 protests the party and the army served the interests of the people. Despite all the evidence to the contrary, Mao is still 70% good and only 30% bad. If the cultural revolution is recognised as having been a disaster, the leadership presents it as an argument for stability that, for it, means its continued monopoly rule.
The Tibet and Tiananmen anniversaries are potentially the most likely causes of trouble for the leadership. In the first case, the breakdown of talks held after the March riots has left both sides in entrenched positions. Hu's personal link with the suppression in 1989 and the presence of his lieutenants in the territory's administration increase the stakes. The crackdown on the Charter 08 movement has shown how concerned the politburo still is with dissent, however peaceful. More generally, the economic downturn, bringing into question the party's ability to manage the economy and deliver high growth, provides a sombre backdrop to the celebrations of 60 years of communist rule as it seeks to alter the post-1978 economic model.
Holding up a distorting mirror to the past can be a tricky exercise when present realities provide a more challenging narrative. But it has been the way of the Communist party since it fixed on the Long March , resistance to the Japanese and the years in Yenan as its founding mythology. The snag for Hu Jintao and his colleagues is that they have only one version of history to present in this year of anniversaries, even if it is one that does not withstand examination. In this, as in other fields, the regime remains caught in a mould of its own making with little scope to change at a time when the country is evolving in ways that the founders of those myths could not have envisaged.
Topics>>
