Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:500cf911-0c39-4f4f-9256-08c8f1c87f2a> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:Chinese defense minister meets with Cambodian guests
Source
A + -
Chinese State Councilor and Defense Minister General Wei Fenghe(R) meets with General Meas Sophea(L), the visiting deputy commander-in-chief of the Royal Cambodian Armed Forces (RCAF) and chief of the Royal Cambodian Army, on the afternoon of April 25. (Photo by Zhang Yongjin)
BEIJING, April 26 (ChinaMil) -- Chinese State Councilor and Defense Minister General Wei Fenghe met with General Meas Sophea, the visiting deputy commander-in-chief of the Royal Cambodian Armed Forces (RCAF) and chief of the Royal Cambodian Army, on the afternoon of April 25, 2018.
General Wei said that China and Cambodia are close neighbors and that the China-Cambodia friendship created and nurtured jointly by the older generation of leaders of the two countries remains unshakable and has become even firmer. President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Hun Sen have met many times and reached many important consensuses to promote high-level development of China-Cambodia relations.
Wei continued that the year of 2018 marks the 60th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between China and Cambodia. China is willing to work together with Cambodian side to continue to build a community with a shared future to benefit the two peoples, adding that the Chinese military is willing to work together with the Cambodian military to fully implement the important agreements of the two heads of state, maintain strategic communications, deepen pragmatic cooperation, and promote in-depth development of the relations between the two armed forces.
General Sophea thanked China for its long-standing support for the construction of the Cambodian armed forces. The Cambodian side highly values the friendly relationship between the two sides and is willing to strengthen solidarity and cooperation with China, enhance the pragmatic exchanges and cooperation between the armies in various fields, and push forward the relations between the two countries and their militaries.
Zhou Song, deputy commander of the Army of the People's Liberation Army (PLA), also attended the meeting.
Chinese State Councilor and Defense Minister General Wei Fenghe meets with General Meas Sophea, the visiting deputy commander-in-chief of the Royal Cambodian Armed Forces (RCAF) and chief of the Royal Cambodian Army, on the afternoon of April 25, 2018. (Photo by Zhang Yongjin)>>
