Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:50c6be8b-8fc6-4b57-b596-df33a7ab13bf> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:Wednesday, April 11, 2018
In recent years, U.S. solar installation has grown rapidly, driven by the dramatically falling cost of solar products. In 2016, solar installation reached approximately 17 times of the installation in 2010. The new tariff would slow this rise. According to GTM Research, the tariff would result in a net reduction of 11 percent in U.S. solar installations from 2018 to 2022—reducing installations from an estimated 68.9 gigawatts to 61.3 gigawatts over the next five years. The market analysis firm IHS Markit estimates a similar 9 to 10 percent reduction over the next four years.
This slower growth of low-carbon energy in one of the largest emitter countries is a critical concern, as it both reduces job growth and creates obstacles to the rapid pace of clean energy deployment needed to address climate and clean air challenges. Although Trump argues that this is designed to protect solar manufacturing jobs, the tariff is likely to help spur jobs in competing industries, like coal, whose economic viability has been threatened by the advent of rapidly declining costs for natural gas and solar energy.
A slowdown in the installation rate of solar panels would negatively affect American jobs. So-called “downstream solar”—installation, project development, and sales and distribution—grew dramatically in recent years. According to the National Solar Jobs Census 2017 , installation now accounts for 51.7 percent of solar-related jobs in the U.S., while manufacturing accounts for only 14.7 percent. Even within solar manufacturing, only a small portion of jobs are in the manufacturing of cells and modules—most American solar manufacturing jobs are in equipment manufacturing such as racking systems, inverters, and solar trackers. Given the composition of the U.S. solar industry, the loss of American solar jobs would be much bigger than any new jobs created by the tariff.
Retaliatory actions in response to the solar tariff are another possibility. Previously, the imposition of tariffs on Chinese solar products instigated a retaliatory ban of U.S.-produced polysilicon in China. The recent rise in international trade of renewable energy products has led many governments to adopt protectionist policies for their own industries, which has generated trade disputes between countries. As of February 7, 13 dispute cases have been submitted to the World Trade Organization related to protectionist policies for renewable energy industry. These disputes have increased risks and uncertainty in the solar market, which discourages investment. The new solar tariff makes this protectionist path more likely.
The overall impact of solar tariffs, then, is best assessed from a broad perspective not limited to just manufacturing. First, across the entire solar value chain, solar cell and module manufacturing is a small part of the U.S. solar industry. For the many jobs created in the other parts of the value chain, the tariff is a hindrance. Moreover, even for U.S. solar manufacturing, the impact of the tariff may not be significant given the already high competitiveness gap compared to other global players. From this perspective, the solar tariff may be on balance harmful for the U.S. economy. Second, the rationale of solar energy is not only economic, but also environmental. Speeding up the installation of renewable energy facilities is as important as boosting U.S. manufacture of solar panels as the U.S. and other countries strive to get on a low-carbon growth path. Finally, global politics cannot be ignored. The possibility of trade retaliation could affect not only the solar market, but also other industries.
A solar tariff is about not only domestic solar manufacturing, but also the entire solar industry, a low-carbon economy, and the global solar market. From this perspective, building a robust, competitive, and innovative business environment for the solar industry can pay more dividends than protecting a small part of the industry.
The focus of policy to support jobs for the solar industry should be on stable, longer-term, and predictable signals to the market. This will encourage large-scale and long-term investments, which the solar tariff is unlikely to bring about.
The findings, interpretations and conclusions posted on Brookings.edu are solely those of the authors and not of The Brookings Institution, its officers, staff, board, funders, or organizations with which they may have a relationship.
Related Topics>>
