Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:77a50dff-ba25-4041-a05c-cf107fdaec99> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:Video
State prosecutors in Michigan filed criminal charges against six state workers for their roles in the contamination of Flint’s drinking water with lead, bringing the total of those charged to nine.Published On
July 29, 2016
By Amy Haimerl and Abby Goodnough
July 29, 2016
FLINT, Mich. — State prosecutors filed criminal charges against six more government workers here on Friday in connection with Flint’s water contamination crisis , accusing them of concealing urgent information about the lead that was leaching into the city’s drinking water and doing nothing to stop it.
The charges bring to nine the number of public employees criminally charged in the public health crisis, all midlevel bureaucrats or lower. Flint residents have been outraged that high-ranking officials have so far escaped any consequences.
But the Michigan attorney general, Bill Schuette, hinted at a news conference on Friday that charges against higher-level officials might follow, saying that investigators were “moving up the chain” and “going where the truth takes us, period.”
The widening inquiry comes as Flint’s residents continue to cope with the effects of the contamination. Concerns about the water emerged more than two years ago, but residents’ complaints were brushed off until last fall, when Gov. Rick Snyder acknowledged the scope of the problem.
Tests continue to show that unfiltered tap water is still not safe to drink, and public health workers are trying to monitor thousands of Flint children who may have been exposed to high levels of lead, which can profoundly affect growth, behavior and intelligence over time.
Mr. Schuette said the employees charged Friday — three from Michigan’s Department of Health and Human Services and three from its Department of Environmental Quality — all “attempted to bury or cover up, to downplay or hide information” about the lead contamination that began in April 2014, when Flint began using the Flint River as its water supply to save money.
“Their story was, there is nothing wrong with Flint water and it was perfectly safe to use,” said Mr. Schuette, a Republican who is seen as a possible candidate for governor in 2018. “In essence, these individuals concealed the truth. They were criminally wrong to do so.”
The accused include Liane Shekter Smith, who led the state environmental agency’s Drinking Water and Municipal Assistance unit until she was fired in February. Prosecutors said she withheld information about the severe health risks of using the water after the lead contamination was underway and failed to protect the citizens of Flint. She was charged with one count of misconduct in office, a felony punishable by up to five years in prison, and one count of willful neglect of duty, a misdemeanor.
The other Department of Environmental Quality employees charged were Adam Rosenthal, a water regulator who prosecutors said doctored reports about lead levels in Flint’s water, and Patrick Cook, another regulator they said misled officials with the federal Environmental Protection Agency about the city’s water quality.
Both men were charged with misconduct in office and conspiracy. Mr. Cook was also charged with willful neglect of duty, and Mr. Rosenthal with tampering with evidence.
Also charged were Nancy Peeler, the Early Childhood Health Section manager in the state’s Department of Health and Human Services; Robert Scott, a data analyst for the department; and Corinne Miller, a state epidemiologist.
Prosecutors said the three employees learned last July of a spike in the number of Flint children with elevated blood lead levels but concealed the results. After seeing an internal report showing the increase, Mr. Schuette said, Ms. Peeler and Mr. Scott “produced a bogus report” that showed no worrisome rise in lead levels.>>
