Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:8af0b51a-cede-4822-941c-5dc32fcc5317> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:Michigan governor faces racketeering lawsuit over 
The lawsuit brought by Flint residents alleges the two-year crisis was the result of ‘intentional’ actions by state officials to cut costs amid bankruptcy fears
Wed 6 Apr 2016 14.04 EDT
Last modified on Fri 14 Jul 2017 15.39 EDT
Share via Email
This article is over 2 years old
‘They wanted to save money,’ said an attorney for the case against Michigan state officials and the governor. Photograph: Kevin Lamarque/Reuters
A federal racketeering lawsuit by hundreds of resident in Flint, Michigan , is alleging the city’s two-year water crisis was the result of an“intentional scheme” crafted by state officials and Michigan’s governor, Rick Snyder, to balance the city’s budget.
In a press conference announcing the 17-count racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations ( Rico ) complaint on Wednesday, attorneys said the state of Michigan ran Flint’s day-to-day operations through an emergency manager, who prioritized balancing the city’s budget through a cost-cutting measure: switching Flint’s water source in April 2014 from Lake Huron, which serviced the city for more than 50 years, to a local river.
'It's affected everybody': Flint children on the frontline of the water crisis
Read more
The decision, estimated at the time to save the city between $1m and $2m annually, sparked a cascade of problems for the cash-strapped city, when the state department of environmental quality didn’t require the river water to be treated with corrosion control agents, which allowed lead to leach off pipes and flow into households.
“They wanted to save money,” said attorney Chet Kern, of New York-based Bern Ripka LLP, which also represented thousands of workers in World Trade Center environmental litigation.
The potential class-action suit, which names more than 400 plaintiffs, said Michigan had the option to use “time-tested, well-honed” federal bankruptcy protections for Flint, rather than appoint an emergency manager with a mandate to balance the books. John Clark, an associate with Bern Ripka, said that decision was driven by state officials’ fear of succumbing to municipal bankruptcy.
“Bankruptcy seems like a cop-out, and it seems like government is failing,” Clark told the Guardian. “Balancing the budget seems like the government’s gaining ground, functioning properly.” To balance the budget, he continued, the city used the Flint river until a new water system was operational, while still charging sky-high water rates for Flint residents.
“They were able to create a budget surplus,” Clark said. “Emergency managers, for them, that’s the best case scenario. They look like they’re executing flawlessly in their plan. Governor Snyder avoids the headache of Flint going bankrupt.”
In a Rico statement filed to federal court, the attorneys said state officials, contractors and emergency managers appointed to run Flint had “the intent and purpose of balancing the Flint City budget through a pattern of racketeering activity.”
“This association … misrepresented the suitability of the toxic Flint River water to Flint’s residents for approximately a two-year period, and billed Flint’s residents at rates that were the highest in the nation for toxic water that was unsuitable for use,” the lawsuit stated.
Bankruptcy seems like a cop-out … Balancing the budget seems like the government'​s gaining ground
“By collecting an estimated $50m in revenue during the two year period Flint was connected to the Flint River, Flint’s City budget deficit was reversed and resulted in a $3.3.m surplus as of June 30, 2015.”>>
