Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:a67ca733-9828-4bf0-bab4-3c651f17d9c5> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:Image
North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, was shown a rocket warhead tip in a photo released this week. Under a series of United Nations Security Council resolutions, North Korea is barred from developing or testing ballistic missiles.
By Choe Sang-Hun
March 17, 2016
SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea flouted United Nations resolutions on Friday by firing what appeared to be a medium-range ballistic missile into the sea between the Korean Peninsula and Japan, the South Korean military said.
The projectile, believed to be a Rodong missile, took off from Sukchon, north of Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, and flew across the peninsula before crashing into the sea off the North’s east coast. The missile flew about 800 kilometers, or 500 miles, the South Korean military said in a statement.
The missile appeared to have been fired from a mobile launcher, South Korean military officials said. The Rodong missile has a range that covers all of South Korea and much of Japan.
Shortly after the launch, another projectile appeared to have been fired from the same location, but it disappeared from the radar soon afterward, the South Korean military said. It was believed to have been a missile, but analysts said they needed more time to be sure, the military said.
“We call again on North Korea to refrain from actions that further raise tensions in the region,” Secretary of State John Kerry said in a statement criticizing North Korea’s missile-launching and vowing to defend South Korea and Japan.
North Korea launched two Scud-type short-range missiles last Thursday from a location south of Pyongyang. They flew about 500 kilometers, or 310 miles.
The Rodong missile is believed to have a range of 620 to 810 miles. Although North Korea frequently tests short-range missiles, it is relatively rare for the country to launch a Rodong missile. North Korea last tested a Rodong missile in March 2014.
The test on Friday came three days after the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, ordered more tests of missiles capable of delivering a nuclear warhead, according to state news media.
North Korea claims that it has begun producing nuclear warheads small enough to be carried by ballistic missiles. Many South Korean and American analysts question that claim. But some have said that the North may have learned how to fit its Rodong missiles with nuclear warheads, even if it may still be years away from building a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile.
The Rodong can carry a warhead weighing 1,540 to 2,200 pounds, according to the South Korean military.
Under a series of United Nations Security Council resolutions, North Korea is prohibited from developing or testing ballistic missiles. The restrictions were imposed after the North’s tests of nuclear weapons and long-range rockets in recent years raised fears that the country was developing a nuclear-tipped long-range missile.
The country often launches short-range rockets or missiles when the United States and South Korea conduct joint annual military exercises. Such drills are underway in South Korea.
Related Coverage>>
