Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:a963b00b-44fb-4512-8adf-d0700c8963a8> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:Source:english.rednet.cn
Updated:2019-03-01 11:19:35
The Promotion Meeting of the 1st China-Africa Expo (China-Africa Economic and Trade Expo) will be held in Beijing on January 9. Rednet will have the unique live broadcasts for it. As a solemn commitment of Chinese national leaders to the world, the China-Africa Expo has the far-reaching significance and the great influence for presenting the will of China and African countries and their economic cooperation. At Beijing Summit of the China-Africa Cooperation Forum last September, Chinese President Xi Jinping made the announcement that China-Africa economic and trade expo will be set up in China at the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, in September 2018. Hunan has become a long-term venue for the China-Africa Economic and Trade Expo.
China-Africa Economic and Trade Expo is hosted by the Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China and the People's Government of Hunan Province. It is the unique platform of the economic and trade cooperation for China and African countries under the China-Africa Cooperation Forum, which is organized by the Department of Commerce of Hunan Province, the Foreign Trade Development Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce of P.R.C., the Foreign Affairs Office of Hunan Province, Hunan Branch of China Council for the Promotion of International Trade, Changsha Municipal People's Government, and Xiangtan Municipal People's Government. It is also an international and economic and trade platform in Hunan Province.
By holding the China-Africa Economic and Trade Expo, China will further promote pragmatic cooperation with African countries, comprehensively enhance the level of open cooperation with Africa, and Hunan will build a "Changsha channel" for China-Africa economic and trade cooperation.
The first China-Africa Expo will focus on trade promotion, investment promotion, agricultural technology, cooperation on energy and power, cooperative parks, infrastructure and financing cooperation, with the theme of "cooperation and win-win, promotion for China-Africa economy and trade". It will be held from June 18th to 20th, 2019, Changsha, the capital city of Hunan Province.>>
