Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:bd217dac-4b12-4dc4-8137-79faf6f164b1> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:Feb. 5, 2016
A high-ranking Michigan regulator was fired Friday for her role in the drinking water crisis in Flint, broadening the fallout from a situation that has endangered the health of children, prompted criminal investigations and become an issue in the presidential campaign.
Liane Shekter Smith, who led the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality’s Drinking Water and Municipal Assistance unit, was fired after a disciplinary conference. Her firing followed the resignations in December of the department’s director, Dan Wyant, and chief spokesman, Brad Wurfel, both of whom were criticized for failing to recognize the scope of Flint’s water problems and for belittling those who attempted to raise alarms. A fourth employee, who worked under Ms. Shekter Smith, has been suspended.
“Putting the well-being of Michiganders first needs to be the top priority for all state employees,” Gov. Rick Snyder said in a statement about the firing. “Anything less than that is unacceptable. The D.E.Q. is working to change this culture and ensure mistakes that endanger our residents don’t occur again.”
Though a number of government agencies have been faulted for their response in Flint, the Environmental Quality Department has been held up by critics as particularly egregious. That agency failed to require corrosion controls mandated under federal law when Flint changed its water source from Lake Huron to the Flint River in April 2014. The lack of anti-corrosion chemicals caused pipes to disintegrate and leach lead into the water. Lead, which is especially harmful to children, is toxic and can have irreversible health effects. After initially dismissing outsiders who warned of the lead risk, Environmental Quality officials admitted in October that they had erred in not requiring corrosion controls.
In recent weeks, Michigan’s attorney general, the F.B.I. and other federal agencies have announced investigations. Mr. Snyder, who has apologized to Flint residents, has been under fire. Hillary Clinton has announced plans to visit Flint on Sunday, and she and Bernie Sanders will hold a debate there next month.
On Friday, Mr. Sanders, responding to the release of emails that showed state and local officials had also delayed warning residents about an outbreak of Legionnaire’s disease that they suspected could be related to the water supply, again called for the resignation of Mr. Snyder, a Republican.
A Republican-led Congressional committee has also targeted the United States Environmental Protection Agency for scrutiny. At a hearing on Wednesday, committee members pressed the agency for an explanation of why top officials waited months to publicize their own scientist’s concerns about lead in Flint. Susan Hedman, a presidential appointee who oversaw the E.P.A. regional office in charge of Michigan, announced her resignation last month.
A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Michigan Water Regulator Fired for Role in Flint Crisis as Fallout Continues. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe
Related Coverage>>
