Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:c65bb757-5947-4f49-93f5-cb29ba2f19c2> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:Image
Karen Weaver, the mayor of Flint, Mich., in Washington on Wednesday during a hearing concerning the city water crisis.
By Mitch Smith
Feb. 10, 2016
Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan asked state lawmakers on Wednesday to approve $195 million more in aid for Flint, where tainted water has caused health problems and prompted calls to rapidly fix the city’s crumbling infrastructure. But the governor’s request did not include funds to replace every lead service line in the city, as Flint’s mayor has insisted is necessary.
In his speech to legislators, Mr. Snyder, a Republican, again referred to the situation in Flint as a “crisis,” and requested money for projects including water sampling, nutritional programs, crisis counseling and new pipes in schools and day care facilities.
“This is not something the citizens of Flint should have to deal with,” Mr. Snyder said. “This is something we do need to address, both short term and intermediate term and long term.”
Flint’s mayor, Karen Weaver, said Tuesday that residents would not feel safe drinking tap water until every lead service line was replaced.
She estimated that replacing 15,000 of those lines, which connect homes to the city water system, would cost $55 million. Mr. Snyder’s funding request included $25 million for Flint infrastructure, which the mayor’s office described as “an important first step” in beginning the pipe replacement.
“We need that other $30 million, too, whether from the state or the federal government or both,” Ms. Weaver said Wednesday in testimony before the House Democrats’ Steering and Policy Committee.
Mr. Snyder, who declined an invitation to appear before that committee, has been widely criticized for being slow to recognize the scope of Flint’s problems after a 2014 switch of its drinking water supply to the Flint River. In October 2015, after months of assurances that the water was safe, Flint residents were told not to drink it amid concerns of lead poisoning, a warning that remains in effect. Lead exposure can cause health and developmental problems, and can have irreversible effects.
Mr. Snyder has scrambled in recent weeks to increase aid for Flint, calling in the National Guard to hand out bottled water and declaring a state of emergency. His office said the state had already allocated $37 million for Flint.
But his efforts have not been enough to stave off criticism. State and federal investigations are underway, and the state’s response to the F crisis has become an issue in the presidential campaign. Hillary Clinton visited Flint over the weekend and condemned the government’s handling of the situation. Her daughter, Chelsea, was scheduled to stop there Thursday.
State Representative Sheldon Neeley, Democrat of Flint, said in an interview that residents were fearful of the water coming out of their taps and “growing fatigued waiting on the next step of relief.” Mr. Neeley said his family had been drinking bottled water for more than a year, and would not feel safe drinking tap water again until the lead service lines were gone. He said Mr. Snyder should be doing more to help the city.
“Our patience is wearing thin with the governor’s anemic and piecemeal response to this crisis,” Mr. Neeley said. “We need to get in here sooner than later to start the repair of the infrastructure and to start providing services for families that have been negatively impacted.”
Mr. Snyder framed his budget request on Wednesday as a way to address some of those issues. His plan calls for increased programming for preschoolers, more school nurses, lead abatement programs in Flint homes and money to help Flint residents pay their water bills.
State and local officials have also turned to Congress for support, but on Wednesday, negotiations in the Senate over a measure that would have provided federal emergency aid to the state appeared to fall apart as lawmakers failed to reach agreement on how to pay for it.
The measure, which began as a $600 million request from Democrats, had been trimmed to a $220 million proposal to fix Flint’s infrastructure, help with the ensuing health care crisis and to support more than $1 billion in infrastructure loans that could have gone to Flint and other places dealing with lead problems.
Back in Flint, a broken water main had placed parts of the city under a boil-water notice on Tuesday and Wednesday. An announcement from Flint said there was no obvious cause, but quoted the city’s utilities administrator, Michael Glasgow, expressing suspicions that “our antiquated system” of pipes was to blame.
Jennifer Steinhauer and Amy Chozick contributed reporting.
A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: National Briefing | Midwest; Michigan: Governor Seeks Aid for Flint. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe
Related Coverage>>
