Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:ecbc981f-b8c8-48d5-9c39-20da874ff89a> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:Todd Woody Solar mirrors suspended on stamenlike struts at an installation in Davis, Calif.
In an article in the special Energy section of The New York Times on Wednesday, I write about a developer who wants to sell “garden plots” in a 15-megawatt photovoltaic farm in Davis, Calif., so that residents can go solar without having to cut down trees in the city’s urban forest to install rooftop arrays.
While solar power plants seem like a 21st-century phenomenon, the Davis project dates from 1987, when the utility Pacific Gas and Electric built P.V.U.S.A. — Photovoltaics for Utility Scale Applications –- to test various nascent technologies.
Matt Cheney, a veteran renewable financier in San Francisco and founder of CleanPath Ventures , eventually acquired P.V.U.S.A. and received the city’s blessing to expand the power plant from around one megawatt to 15 megawatts.
Last week, I took a took a tour of the solar farm, a veritable outdoor Smithsonian of solar power displaying a dozen photovoltaic technologies. Some have become common sights on rooftops and at power plants while others barely left the laboratory before failing and bear the name of start-ups long gone. Read more…
Nov 17, 2010
For the Desert Tortoise, a Threat and an Opportunity

Todd Woody Mercy Vaughn, a wildlife biologist, with a desert tortoise on the Ivanpah solar power plant site.
In an article in The New York Times on Wednesday, I write about how the fortunes of big solar power plants in the desert Southwest can hinge on the way developers handle imperiled wildlife in the path of their projects.
The protected desert tortoise has become the totemic animal for environmentalists fighting to ensure that the huge solar farms don’t eliminate essential habitat for the long-lived reptile and other wildlife, like the bighorn sheep and flat-tailed horned lizard.
The tortoise has been in decline for decades, and the rampant changing of the desert — including the development of casinos, strip malls and subdivisions, and designation of off-road recreational vehicle areas — took its toll long before construction began late last month on the Ivanpah solar power plant , the first large-scale solar thermal project to be break ground in the United States in 20 years.
Still, the solar farms will industrialize the desert on an unparalleled scale. The seven projects already licensed in California will cover 42 square miles with immense mirror arrays. Read more…
Oct 29, 2010
Warp Speed for Risky Solar Ventures

Todd Woody for The New York Times A prototype of the Suncatcher at the Sandia National Laboratories in New Mexico gives a rough idea of the sheer scale of Tessera’s proposed Calico project in the California desert.
In an article in Friday’s paper, I write about the solar thermal power plant building boom now under way in California’s Mojave Desert. The looming expiration of crucial federal financial support for the multibillion-dollar projects, though, could turn the boom to bust.
But that hasn’t deterred California regulators, who on Thursday approved the seventh large-scale solar thermal farm since late August.
After years of painstaking environmental review, the California Energy Commission has been green-lighting the massive solar power plants at warp speed so developers can break ground before year’s end and qualify for a government cash grant that covers 30 percent of the cost of construction.
The latest approval goes to Tessera Solar ’s Calico project, to be built in the San Bernardino County desert in Southern California. Originally proposed to generate 850 megawatts -– at peak output, that’s close to the production of a nuclear power plant -– the project was whittled down to 663.5 megawatts to lessen the impact on wildlife like the desert tortoise and the bighorn sheep. Read more…
About
How are climate change, scarcer resources, population growth and other challenges reshaping society? From science to business to politics to living , our reporters track the high-stakes pursuit of a greener globe in a dialogue with experts and readers.>>
