Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:edcd6ca6-8025-463e-a0e7-5d85f92c5b35> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:Gates meeting marks step in warming frosty military relationship with China
US Defense Secretary Robert Gates (L) and China's Defence Minister Liang Guanglie shake hands before their meeting in Hanoi on October 11, 2010. The defence chiefs of China and the United States met in Hanoi in the first talks between the two nations' top military officials in about a year as they work to rebuild fragile ties. (Carolyn Kaster/AFP/Getty Images)
TOOLBOX
Washington Post Staff Writer
Monday, October 11, 2010; 6:28 PM
HANOI -  In the history of diplomatic breakthroughs, it didn't look like much. There was a handshake in front of a couple of cameras, followed by 30 minutes of carefully planned dialogue in a hotel conference room here.
But the meeting Monday between Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and his Chinese counterpart, Gen. Liang Guanglie, the minister of defense, marked the first time that the two superpowers' top military leaders have engaged in talks for nearly a year.
"How are you?" Gates said, extending his hand with an open smile. Liang responded in kind in Chinese and followed later with a formal invitation for Gates to visit Beijing next year.
The niceties put a veneer on a troubled relationship that has fueled worries throughout the Pacific Rim since January, when the Chinese People's Liberation Army cut off most contact with the Pentagon to protest a $6.4 billion arms deal between the United States and Taiwan.
Since then, cooperation on security issues between China and the United States has suffered, with both sides doubting each other's motives on issues large and small, from tensions on the Korean Peninsula to naval exercises in international waters that were once seen as routine. Still, it is not expected that cooperation will suddenly improve, as distrust dominates the military relationship and China is particularly reluctant to engage in substantive talks.
The chill in relations has come at a time when other Asian countries have become increasingly concerned about China's aggressive military buildup and its assertive actions in maritime territorial disputes in the region. As a result, longtime U.S. allies such as Japan - and newer partners, such as Vietnam - have turned to Washington for support as they seek a counterweight to Chinese influence.
Gates and other U.S. officials have pressed China for months to resume military ties, arguing that a lapse in communications only exacerbates mistrust. In particular, Gates has pushed China to allow him to come to Beijing. China had previously extended such an invitation this year but withdrew it as part of its protest of the Taiwan arms deal.
"When there are disagreements, it's all the more important to talk to each other more, not less," Gates told reporters Monday after his session with Liang.
Guan Youfei, deputy director of the Foreign Affairs Office of China's Ministry of National Defense, told reporters in Hanoi that Beijing agreed to the resumption of military ties in an attempt to break their "current on-again, off-again cycle."
Guan was the PLA officer who on May 24 during a meeting with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner lambasted the United States for 20 minutes, blaming Washington for the troubles in its relations with Beijing.
Analysts have said a military rapprochement was likely, given that the White House is preparing to host Chinese President Hu Jintao for a visit next year. Although Washington and Beijing have been squabbling over political and economic issues, only the military side of the relationship had experienced a complete breakdown.
As China has gained economic and military clout, it has complained more loudly about Washington's long-standing practice of selling arms to Taiwan, which Beijing considers a rogue, breakaway province even though it boasts a vibrant democracy. Guan told reporters in Hanoi that the Taiwan arms sales remain "important impediments to a wider and deeper" relationship.
CONTINUED     1>>
