Document<stored,indexed,tokenized,omitNorms,indexOptions=DOCS<UUID:f524b6c3-b05f-434b-83f7-962240e1e7e2> stored,indexed,tokenized,termVector,indexOptions=DOCS_AND_FREQS<TEXT:Opt out or contact us anytime
The continuing Rome investigation is the first into the bank since the early 1980s, when Italy’s Banco Ambrosiano, in which the Vatican had investments, collapsed after the disappearance of $1.3 billion in loans to companies in Latin America. Its chairman was found dead in 1982, hanging from Blackfriars Bridge in London. The Vatican bank denied wrongdoing but paid $250 million to Banco Ambrosiano’s creditors.
In recent years, the Vatican has made progress but continues to lag in meeting international banking standards. Last July, a report by Moneyval, a monitoring agency under the Council of Europe, said that in the two years since it was created, the Vatican’s new Financial Intelligence Authority had flagged only two suspicious transactions.
Last October, the Vatican appointed a new head of the authority, René Bruelhart, a 40-year-old Swiss lawyer who had helped take Liechtenstein, famous for its banking secrecy, off the black list of countries that do not comply with banking standards. Mr. Bruelhart’s appointment, like that of Mr. von Freyberg, raised hopes of those seeking greater transparency and to open up a tradition-bound financial apparatus long dominated by Italians.
Further outside pressure on the Vatican to mend its secretive ways has come from the European Commission, the Brussels-based executive arm of the 27-nation European Union, and from rule changes brought about by the introduction of the euro in 1999.
In December 2000, the Vatican signed a monetary agreement in order to use the euro in its tiny territory and to issue coins bearing the marking Città del Vaticano as well as commemorative coins, which it sells at considerable markup to tourists and others.
Advertisement

But the agreement, to the dismay of officials in Brussels, included none of the commitments made by most other euro-using countries to combat money laundering. The European Commission demanded that the accord be revised.
Eventually, the Vatican signed a new deal with Brussels in December 2009, which included an unprecedented restriction on the Vatican’s autonomy: a commitment to accept the jurisdiction of the Luxembourg-based European Union Court of Justice in settling disputes over the monetary deal with Europe.
“This was a big novelty, a historic step,” the European official said. “For the first time in history the Vatican recognized a superior authority that is not God.”
Last June, Mr. Cipriani, the bank’s director general, told reporters on a rare tour of the Vatican bank that it had originally signed on to money-laundering standards monitored by Moneyval in order to continue issuing euro coins.
“We couldn’t print coins with the Holy Father’s image, that’s why we’re working on all this,” he said, standing beneath a frescoed ceiling depicting “Mother Church” and answering questions submitted in advance. Bank managers in dark suits stood silently on the sidelines.
The Vatican was “fully committed to the line of transparency,” he said, adding, “We need to take away the veil, the shadow” that had fallen over the bank.
But the shadow grew longer. On Jan. 1, the Bank of Italy, which has placed the Vatican bank under intense scrutiny, blocked Deutsche Bank Italy from operating financial services at the Vatican, including the use of credit cards at its museums, after the Vatican failed to meet a Dec. 31 compliance deadline. The Vatican contested the move .Last month, the Vatican announced that it had found a consortium in Switzerland, which does not belong to the European Union, as a replacement.
The fact that the Vatican chose a Swiss firm to manage financial services inside the Vatican “isn’t a good, transparent sign,” said Carlo Marroni, a Vatican expert with the Italian business daily Il Sole 24 Ore.
But he said there had been some change. “In the past they were certainly considered a fiscal paradise,” Mr. Marroni said. Today, they have improved, but are still in a gray zone. “They did a bit more than the minimum, but it’s still insufficient,” he said. “They took only the steps that they couldn’t not take.”
Correction: March 17, 2013
An article last Sunday about the growing pressure on the Vatican to clean up its bank or risk access to the global banking system misstated the connection the bank’s former president and its current general director had to a money-laundering case. The president, Ettore Gotti Tedesch, and the general director, Paolo Cipriani, were under investigation; they were not charged in the case. The article also misidentified the employees who stood on the sidelines last June as Mr. Cipriani took reporters on a rare tour of the bank. They were bank managers, not security guards.
Rachel Donadio reported from Vatican City, and Andrew Higgins from Brussels.
A version of this article appears in print on March 10, 2013, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Power Struggle On Reforming Vatican Bank. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe>>
